---
layout: post
title: Manoeveuring the Americas 
date: 2017-01-31 
description: 
featured: True
tags:
- Writing
---

It's been 5 months since I came here to pursue my doctoral degree. So far everything has been just fine. The loneliness, fear and anxiety which plagued the better half of my stay here is slowly fading away. Things are much clearer and I seem to have slowly getting the grasp of things here. I have decided to document what I feel and what I have felt since my time here as a way to vent out my frustration and my views and also try and improve my literary skills. In this section I will write mostly about the ups and downs I have come across during my time in America. 

### American superfluous 

I don't know about anyone else but for me the initial days staying in America were tough. Having lived with my parents all my life and now being suddenly uprooted from the comforts of my bedroom and my moms wonderful homemade food was surely distressing. How for granted I had taken my parents. Being independent was fun but with it came baggage of keeping the house clean, paying the bills and maintaining finances. Living with parents, my dad was the central bank and mom the ATM. Now things got real I had to think twice before I made a pruchase. Use that "Do I want or do I need it" argument to coax my inner shoppoholic. The biggest of my pain of washing and folding my laundry. It was during this time I missed my mother the most. While I was tackling the problems of being alone and independent I also had to deal with the demanding coursework of the graduate schoool. It surely threw me off balance in the start. I had to reevaulate my methods. Being an above average student since my school days the Indian education system had molded me into an grade hungry learner whose prime motivation was to ace the test rather than to learn about the subject. Here it was different. Everyone in my batch was a above average student which made the competition fierce. We were tested on how my we understood the subject rather than how much we can regurgitate can a trained ape. I loved it. Though the learning curve was steep the experience was worthwhile. I had few episodes of feeling like an imposter but with time those healed. The long distance relationship added more to the pain. I, rather we both, craved each other. Mentally and physically.  Having spent the few months before my departure in each other's company it was tough to not be able to touch one another or feel her breathe on my lips or her head on my shoulders. But luckily what I thought could be my Achilles heel turned out to be my most potent source of motivation and strength. More on that later....

### Missing India 

On the outside America is awesome. From an Indian tourist pov it's a dream land but on a closer look I have realized America is super weird. It's not as vibrant and colorful as India or is it as dirty as the subcontinent. I never would have thought I would say this, but I miss India. All it's dirty, ruggedness and chaos. There's some order in the randomness there. While Americans are disciplined, clean and punctual somewhere I miss the emotional connect which the Indians emanated profoundly. It might be the language or the culture or the climate -- geographical social or political -- but in India I felt I was a part of huge family. Something which is lacking here. America has TOO MANY rules. Driving here is boring. While it's true that the wide clean roads, lush greenery , open country fields and impeccably planned intertwined highway network make your jaws drop. For me that awe was ephemeral. Soon that novelty faded and what left were boring monotonous highways with insanely large vehicles going at insanely high speeds. I miss those colorful trucks or those packed busses or motorcycles with 5 people on them. Those rustic outposts which served fresh sugarcane juice and doubled as navigators. Every road trip whether rural or urban in india was an adventure. 